Full Name: 	 Ashutosh Padelkar

CONTACT INFORMATION
Email ID:	 ashutosh.padelkar@gmail.com
Skype: 		 live:ashutosh.padelkar
Phone Number: 	 +919757052487
Home Address:    C-1 Hemavati,
		 New Mandala, 
		 Mumbai 400094, 
		 Maharashtra, 
		 India

Work Location: 	 Mumbai, India (GMT +5:30)

University: 	 Department of Physics, Ruia College
                 Affiliated to University of Mumbai

I am a first year student in Ramnarain Ruia College, Mumbai studying physics, 
with  mathematics and computer science as ancillary subjects. My primary 
interests include computational and theoretical approach to physics, with a 
propensity for astrophysics. Study of gravitation particularly interests me, 
hence my interest in projects involving gravitational lensing. Due to my 
interest in theoretical aspect of physics as well, I usually read and study
in my free time. I pursue programming as a hobby - Project Euler has proven
to be a good means to polish my skills. I also like long walks as a mode of
recreation. I prefer to work primarily during the night hours in local time. 
After completion of my second semester before 1st April, I have no particular 
time commitments and intend to focus on this project. 

I'm proficient in C, C++ and Python, and I've used shell scripting on numerous
occassions. I also have some experience with Octave. I'm also comfortable with 
git, though I have no experience with other SCMs.

I currently use Arch Linux with spectrwm as the window manager: I prefer to 
use keyboard over mouse as far as possible. A high school computer science
teacher suggested that I switch to Linux, from Windows, due to my interest
in programming. I've used quite a few distributions of Linux before settling
down on Arch Linux: Puppy, Ubuntu, Mint, Debian, Gentoo. I've also followed 
the Linux From Scratch guides to build a working Linux system from source code,
which allowed me to understand the internals of Linux. I also operate a home 
server on a Raspberry Pi running Arch Linux for my personal use. I'm quite
comfortable with virtualization - especially VirtualBox, though I presonally
use qemu directly due to my disposition for text interfaces. 

I understand the concept of gravitational lensing and time delays associated 
with the mulitple images or arcs that might be formed, as well as the  
significance of such measurements in calculation of important cosmological 
parameters like the Hubble's constant, essentially, the quantification of 
dark energy.

PROJECT DETAILS

Title:	      Strong Gravitational Lens Time Delays

Abstract:     Analysis of time delays of strongly lensed quasars is a promising 
	      candidate to permit constraints on dark energy. A new approach to
       	      this problem is a statistical algorithm that analyzes the light 
	      curves of multiple images formed by the lens. 

Objective:    To design, in python or C++, a program that analyzes the lightcurve
	      data from images to determine time delays and error bounds, and to 
	      design a light curve simulation based on the provided framework that 
	      imposes random time delays to demonstrate the utility of the algorithm. 
	      The ultimate aim of the program is to be able to calculate the time 
	      delays and error bounds directly from the provided images. A design
	      goal is to follow an inherent modular approach to streamline the 
	      process of regression testing. 

	      The fundamental challenge is to reduce the error bounds on the
	      measurement of time delays. A statistical approach is taken in 
	      design of the algorithm, coupled with tests from the lightcurve
	      simulator.

Deliverables: (1) Code: 
                         * Time delay module
			 * Lightcurve simulator module
			 * Image processing module
			 * GUI wrapper
	      (2) Tests:
	                 * Unit tests
			 * Integration tests
			 * Regression tests
			 * Alpha/beta tests 
	      (3) Documentation:
	      		 * All code modules

Timeline: To be decided
